# Classifying glioblastoma cells based on developmental cell type resemblance using Single-Cell RNA Sequencing and Machine Learning approaches
Tumors are heterogeneous entities exhibiting a variety of cell types and complex spatial configurations, often resulting from high mutation rates in cancer cells due to defects in DNA repair mechanisms. This heterogeneity is manifested in variations in gene expression, leading to differences in cell morphology, metabolic rates, and receptor expression, complicating the analysis of tumor composition and origin. In fact, the genetic and phenotypic diversity of cancer cells hides the initial mutations and cellular behaviors that lead to tumorigenesis, making it challenging to trace their evolutionary paths. Identifying resemblances between tumor cells and specific healthy developmental cell types provides a starting point for a better understanding of their characteristics, helping to navigate tumor heterogeneity and potentially enhancing our understanding of tumorigenic processes. 

This study aims to categorize glioblastoma cells based on the developmental cell types they most closely resemble. To achieve this, we constructed a single-cell RNA sequencing meta-atlas of the developing brain to annotate a glioblastoma single-cell RNA sequencing dataset. We employed two different methodologies: a machine learning approach using a random forest classifier, and a multidimensional distance-based approach utilizing the Mahalanobis distance. 

The analytical methods have categorized tumor cells into three principal types: astrocytic and pre-astrocytic-like, OPC-like, and neuronal-IPC-like. We are assessing whether these classifications are consistent across both methodologies, aiming to refine the techniques for more reliable predictions. This will enable us to confidently determine whether tumor cells robustly resemble specific developmental cell types. 

The newly acquired information on tumor composition might be used to investigate how the clinical properties of a tumor—such as its growth rate, response to treatments, and prognosis—and molecular properties (i.e., clonal structures) correlate with its cellular composition. Also, making this classification reliable and systematic may enhance our understanding of how these cells co-opt developmental pathways to foster tumor growth. 
